Legislative Chamber, Room 250
City Hall, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place
San Francisco, CA 94102-4689
SHAMANN WALTON, PRESIDENT
CONNIE CHAN, MATT DORSEY, RAFAEL MANDELMAN, GORDON MAR, 
MYRNA MELGAR, AARON PESKIN, DEAN PRESTON, HILLARY RONEN, AHSHA SAFAI, 
CATHERINE STEFANI
Special Meeting
Monday, August 8, 2022 - 11:00 AM
MEETING MINUTES
BOARD COMMITTEES
Budget and Appropriations Committee
Supervisors Ronen, Safai, Mar, Chan, Walton
 
Budget and Finance Committee
Supervisors Ronen, Safai, Mar
 
Government Audit and Oversight Committee
Supervisors Preston, Chan, Mandelman
 
Land Use and Transportation Committee
Supervisors Melgar, Preston, Peskin
 
Public Safety and Neighborhood Services Committee
Supervisors Mar, Stefani, Melgar
 
Rules Committee
Supervisors Peskin, Mandelman, Chan
 
Youth, Young Adult, and Families Committee
Supervisors Ronen, Safai, Dorsey
Wednesday
1:30 PM
Wednesday
10:00 AM
1st and 3rd Thursday
10:00 AM
Monday
1:30 PM
2nd and 4th Thursday
10:00 AM
Monday
10:00 AM
2nd Friday
10:00 AM
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO
Angela Calvillo, Clerk of the Board
Volume 117     Number 27
Committee Membership Meeting Days
First-named Supervisor is Chair, Second-named Supervisor is Vice-Chair of the Committee.
8/8/2022Board of Supervisors Meeting Minutes
Members Present: Connie Chan, Matt Dorsey, Rafael Mandelman, Gordon Mar, Myrna Melgar, Aaron 
Peskin, Dean Preston, Ahsha Safai, Catherine Stefani, and Shamann Walton
The Board of Supervisors of the City and County of San Francisco met in special session, in-person 
with remote access and public comment also available via telephone, on Monday, August 8, 2022, 
with President Shamann Walton presiding. 
President Walton called the meeting to order at 11:05 a.m.
Remote Access to Information and Participation
The Board of Supervisors and its committees convene hybrid meetings that allow in-person 
attendance, remote access, and public comment via teleconference. Visit the SFGovTV website 
(www.sfgovtv.org) to stream the live meetings and watch meetings on demand or watch live meetings 
on San Francisco Cable Channels 26, 28, 78 or 99 (depending on your provider). Members of the 
public may provide public comment in-person or remotely via teleconference (detailed instructions 
available at: https://sfbos.org/remote-meeting-call). 
Members of the public may submit their comments by email to: bos@sfgov.org; all comments 
received will be made a part of the official record. Board of Supervisors Regular Meetings begin at 
2:00 p.m. on Tuesdays. Committee agendas and their associated documents are available at 
https://sfbos.org/meetings/42.
Please visit the Board’s website (www.sfbos.org) regularly to be updated on the current situation as it 
affects the legislative process. For more information contact the Office of the Clerk of the Board at 
(415) 554-5184 or bos@sfgov.org.
ROLL CALL AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
On the call of the roll, Supervisors Chan, Dorsey, Mandelman, Mar, Melgar, Peskin, Preston, Safai, 
Stefani, and Walton were noted present.  
Supervisor Ronen was noted not present.
A quorum of the Board was present, with Supervisors Mandelman, Mar, Melgar, Peskin, and Safai 
attending remotely.  
Supervisor Mar was noted present in the Chamber at 12:28 p.m. 
President Walton presented the ancestral homeland acknowledgement of the Ramaytush Ohlone, 
who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula, pursuant to Board Rule 4.7.1.
Supervisor Ronen Excused from Attendance
Supervisor Stefani, seconded by Supervisor Dorsey, moved to excuse Supervisor Ronen from 
attending today's meeting.  The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 10 - Chan, Dorsey, Mandelman, Mar, Melgar, Peskin, Preston, Safai, Stefani, Walton
Excused: 1 - Ronen
Page 751 Printed at  7:02 pm on 3/7/24City and County of San Francisco
8/8/2022Board of Supervisors Meeting Minutes
COMMUNICATIONS
Victor Young, Assistant Clerk, instructed members of the public, when public comment is called, to 
contribute live comments for up to two minutes in-person or by dialing the provided telephone 
number. In-person public comment will be taken before remote public comment is called. Those 
who are providing public comment remotely must dial * 3 to be added to the remote queue to speak. 
Written comments may be submitted through email (bos@sfgov.org) or the U.S. Postal Service at 
City Hall, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place, Room 244, San Francisco, CA 94102.
NEW BUSINESS
FOR ADOPTION WITHOUT COMMITTEE REFERENCE
[Findings to Allow Teleconferenced Meetings During Declared Emergency]220872
Motion making findings to allow teleconferenced meetings under California Government Code, 
Section 54953(e). (Clerk of the Board)
President Walton opened discussions on the Motion making findings to allow teleconferenced 
meetings (File No. 220872).
There were no speakers. The President declared public comment closed.
Motion No. M22-139
APPROVED by the following vote:
Ayes: 10 - Chan, Dorsey, Mandelman, Mar, Melgar, Peskin, Preston, Safai, Stefani, Walton
Excused: 1 - Ronen
Appointment of  President Pro Tempore
At the request of President Walton, Supervisor Chan assumed the chair at 12:15 p.m.  The 
President resumed the chair at 12:25 p.m.
Page 752 Printed at  7:02 pm on 3/7/24City and County of San Francisco
8/8/2022Board of Supervisors Meeting Minutes
[Ratifying the County Health Officer’s Declaration of a Local Health Emergency 
Regarding Monkeypox Virus Outbreak]
220908
Sponsor: Walton
Motion ratifying the San Francisco Health Officer’s August 1, 2022, Declaration of Local Health 
Emergency regarding the outbreak of the Monkeypox virus. 
President Walton opened discussions on the Motion ratifying the Declaration of Local Health 
Emergency regarding the Monkeypox virus (File No. 220908).
Dr. Grant Colfax, Director, and Dr. Susan Phillip (Department of Public Health); presented 
information and answered questions raised throughout the discussion.
Ms. Liu; Speaker; Jessica; Silvia; Jan; Speaker; Speaker; Speaker; Yan; Speaker; Speaker; Akash 
Singh; Shu Mei Liu; Speaker; Andy Stone; Mark Lam; Patricia; Speaker; Vinny Eng; Blake Scott; 
David Watson; Speaker; Speaker; Speaker; spoke in support of the proposed legislation.
Gary McCoy; Francisco Da Costa; Kristen Evans; Speaker; Speaker; Speaker; spoke on various 
concerns relating to the proposed legislation.
There were no other speakers. The President declared public comment closed.
Motion No. M22-140
APPROVED by the following vote:
Ayes: 10 - Chan, Dorsey, Mandelman, Mar, Melgar, Peskin, Preston, Safai, Stefani, Walton
Excused: 1 - Ronen
ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business, the Board adjourned at the hour of 12:54 p.m.
N.B.  The Minutes of this meeting set forth all actions taken by the Board of Supervisors on the 
matters stated, but not necessarily the chronological sequence in which the matters were taken up.
Approved by the Board of Supervisors on September 13, 2022.
Angela Calvillo, Clerk of the Board
Page 753 Printed at  7:02 pm on 3/7/24City and County of San Francisco