SHAMANN WALTON, PRESIDENT
CONNIE CHAN, MATT HANEY, RAFAEL MANDELMAN, GORDON MAR, MYRNA MELGAR, 
AARON PESKIN, DEAN PRESTON, HILLARY RONEN, AHSHA SAFAI, CATHERINE STEFANI
Special Meeting
Thursday, December 23, 2021 - 2:00 PM
MEETING MINUTES
BOARD COMMITTEES
Budget and Appropriations Committee
Supervisors Haney, Safai, Mar, Ronen, Walton
Budget and Finance Committee
Supervisors Haney, Safai, Mar
Government Audit and Oversight Committee
Supervisors Preston, Chan, Mandelman
Land Use and Transportation Committee
Supervisors Melgar, Preston, Peskin
Public Safety and Neighborhood Services Committee
Supervisors Mar, Stefani, Haney
Rules Committee
Supervisors Peskin, Mandelman, Chan
Youth, Young Adult, and Families Committee
Supervisors Ronen, Safai, Melgar
Wednesday
1:00 PM
Wednesday
10:30 AM
1st and 3rd Thursday
10:00 AM
Monday
1:30 PM
2nd and 4th Thursday
10:00 AM
Monday
10:00 AM
2nd Friday
10:00 AM
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO
Angela Calvillo, Clerk of the Board
Volume 116     Number 42
Committee Membership Meeting Days
First-named Supervisor is Chair, Second-named Supervisor is Vice-Chair of the Committee.
Held via Videoconference
(remote public access provided via teleconference) 
www.sfgovtv.org 
12/23/2021Board of Supervisors Meeting Minutes
Members Present:  Connie Chan, Matt Haney, Rafael Mandelman, Gordon Mar, Myrna Melgar,  
Dean Preston, Hillary Ronen, Ahsha Safai, Catherine Stefani, and Shamann Walton
The Board of Supervisors of the City and County of San Francisco met in special session through 
videoconferencing, and provided public comment through teleconferencing, on Thursday, 
December 23, 2021, with President Shamann Walton presiding. 
President Walton called the meeting to order at 2:04 p.m.
Remote Access to Information and Participation
On March 17, 2020, the Board of Supervisors (Board) authorized their Board and Committee 
meetings to convene remotely and allow remote public comment via teleconference. Effective 
June 29, 2021, the Board and staff began to reconvene for in-person Board proceedings; although, 
the authorization to meet remotely remains in place. Committee meetings will continue to convene 
remotely until further notice. Visit the SFGovTV website at (www.sfgovtv.org) to stream the live 
meetings, or to watch meetings on demand. Members of the public are encouraged to participate 
remotely via detailed instructions on participating via teleconference available at 
https://sfbos.org/remote-meeting-call.  
Members of the public may participate by phone or may submit their comments by email to: 
bos@sfgov.org; all comments received will be made a part of the official record. Board of 
Supervisors Regular Meetings begin at 2:00 p.m. on Tuesdays. Board Agendas and their 
associated documents are available at https://sfbos.org/meetings/42. Please visit the Board’s 
website (www.sfbos.org) regularly to be updated on the current situation as it affects the legislative 
process. For more information contact the Office of the Clerk of the Board at (415) 554-5184.
ROLL CALL AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
On the call of the roll, Supervisors Chan, Haney, Mandelman, Mar, Melgar, Preston, Ronen, Safai, 
Stefani, and Walton were noted present.  
Supervisor Peskin was noted not present.
President Walton presented the ancestral homeland acknowledgement of the Ramaytush Ohlone, 
who are the original inhabitants of the San Francisco Peninsula, pursuant to Board Rule 4.7.1.
President Walton informed the Board that Supervisor Peskin submitted a memorandum, indicating 
he would be out of the country and requested to be excused from today’s meeting.
Supervisor Peskin Excused from Attendance
Supervisor Ronen, seconded by Supervisor Chan, moved to excuse Supervisor Peskin from 
attending today’s meeting.  The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 10 - Chan, Haney, Mandelman, Mar, Melgar, Preston, Ronen, Safai, Stefani, Walton
Excused: 1 - Peskin
Page 1017 Printed at  3:55 pm on 1/21/22City and County of San Francisco
12/23/2021Board of Supervisors Meeting Minutes
COMMUNICATIONS
Angela Calvillo, Clerk of the Board, instructed members of the public, when general public 
comment is called, to contribute live comments for up to two minutes by dialing the provided 
telephone number. When connected, they will receive another prompt, dial * 3 to be added to the 
queue to speak. Make sure to call from a quiet location, speak clearly and slowly, and turn down 
your television or radio. Written comments may be submitted through email (bos@sfgov.org) or 
the U.S. Postal Service at City Hall, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place, Room 244, San Francisco, CA 
94102.
Clerk Calvillo then informed the Board that an Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) request for 
accommodations was received to allow a member of the public to provide public comment at the 
beginning of the meeting. President Walton requested the member of the public be provided the 
opportunity to deliver their public comment out of order.
Zach; spoke in opposition to the proposed Motion concurring in the Proclamation of Local 
Emergency relating to drug overdoses in the Tenderloin (File No. 211320).
Page 1018 Printed at  3:55 pm on 1/21/22City and County of San Francisco
12/23/2021Board of Supervisors Meeting Minutes
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
(On December 17, 2021, Mayor London N. Breed declared a local emergency, pursuant to 
California Government Code, Sections 8550 et seq. In order for the Board of Supervisors to 
consider concurrence of this local emergency prior to the seven-day deadline, this Committee of 
the Whole was called pursuant to Charter, Section 3.100(14), and Board Rule 3.19.)
Board of Supervisors Sitting as a Committee of the Whole
Appointment of President Pro Tempore
At the request of President Walton, Supervisor Haney assumed the chair at 7:20 p.m. The 
President resumed the chair at 7:29 p.m.
[Concurring in Proclamation of Local Emergency - Drug Overdoses in the 
Tenderloin]
211320
Motion concurring in the December 17, 2021, Proclamation by the Mayor Declaring the Existence 
of a Local Emergency in connection with the sudden increase in drug overdoses in the Tenderloin, 
and concurring in actions taken to meet the emergency to: 1) require City employees and officers 
to take all steps requested by the Executive Director of the Department of Emergency 
Management (“DEM”) to address the emergency conditions; 2) require all City employees and 
officers to take all steps requested by the Executive Director of DEM to qualify the City for funding 
as may be available to reimburse the City for the expenses it incurs in addressing this emergency; 
3) allow departments to procure services, goods, and public works relating to the emergency using
emergency procurement procedures, and waive any applicable requirement of Civil Service 
Commission approval of such contracts; and 4) allow the implementation in the Tenderloin of 
temporary facilities for purposes of offering services as part of the emergency response, and waive 
any provision in City law that limits or restricts the City’s deployment of such facilities, and any 
applicable local requirements for public notice, the filing or approval of a permit application, or 
payment of fees related to that response. (Clerk of the Board)
President Walton opened the public hearing and inquired as to whether any individual wished to 
address the Committee of the Whole regarding the Motion concurring in the Proclamation of Local 
Emergency relating to drug overdoses in the Tenderloin. Maryellen Carroll, Director (Department of 
Emergency Management); Anne Pearson (Office of the City Attorney); Andres Power (Office of the 
Mayor); Chief William Scott (Police Department); Dr. Grant Colfax, Director (Department of Public 
Health); Shireen McSpadden, Executive Director (Department of Homelessness and Supportive 
Housing); Adrienne Bechelli (Department of Emergency Management); provided an overview of the 
Proclamation of Local Emergency and responded to questions raised throughout the discussion. 
Kevin Carroll; Paulina Bayer; William Jake; Kelly Powers; Mark Nagel; Nick Burg; Steven Martin 
Pinto; Speaker; Ross; Speaker; Shawn Donovan; Shad Newman; Anya Vartenya; Christopher 
Panatakos; Amelia; Tess Welborn; Speaker; Simon Timothy; Terry Lewis; Walt Chamber; Speaker; 
Cassandra Costello; Judy Elkman; Ashely Gossner; Celestina Pearl; Matt Suvary; Speaker; 
Simonson; Bobby Jones; Michelle Damingo; Marie Raphael; Eric Rudenbeck; Tracy Everling; 
Speaker; Rene Colorado; Speaker; Ava Craselli; Jeremy; Simon Bertrand; Speaker; David Moroff; 
Kristy Schravella; Speaker; Speaker; Paul Soto; Chris Schulman; Diana Williams; Speaker; Phil 
Ginafref; John; Marisa Rodriguez; Speaker; Kate; Speaker; Adam; Evan; Jennifer Yen; Speaker; 
Juel Miller; Speaker; Norma Carvelo; Sydney; Hank; Adam; Chad Newman; Elan Chu; Speaker;
Page 1019 Printed at  3:55 pm on 1/21/22City and County of San Francisco
12/23/2021Board of Supervisors Meeting Minutes
Tom Wolfe; Chelsea; Speaker; Speaker; Speaker; Speaker; Speaker; Daniel; Speaker; Joanne 
Silda; Speaker; Speaker; Carol Vlosinger; Ken Lambo; Speaker; Speaker; Speaker; Speaker; 
Speaker; Speaker; spoke in support of the proposed Motion concurring in the Proclamation of 
Local Emergency. Zach; Jeremy Miller; Leslie Dreyer; Peter Murphy; Jennifer Friedenbach; Laurie 
Brooks; Zach Lipman; Jess; Lydia Branson; Valerie Mackentey; Marne Regan; Sandra Drattler; 
Charles Had; Matthew; David Elliott Lewis; Mimi Chan; Ansell Serra; Justice; Jenny Tse; Harold 
Simley; Keegan Townsend; David Grace; John McCormick; Roma Guy; Eric Arguella; Linda 
Chapman; Laura Davis; Mimi Closner; Dale Seymour; Francisco da Costa; Max Mullay; Michael 
Lyon; Judy; Edie Shore; Speaker; Allison; Nick Parde; Jennifer Reed; Amy Farrell Wise; Gilbert 
Crisswell; Kelly Cutler; Tuesday Morton; Mary McGee; Dr. Teresa Palmer; Carrie; Leigh McGaver; 
Speaker; Simon Maganelli; Elliott Hellman; Brooke Lowberg; Val Boretti; Martin Makerel; Lark; Evie 
Martin; Carlos Watkins; Rick Sterling; TJ Holtzman; Larry Ackerman; Speaker; Laif; Sara Lee; Lisa 
Church; Regina Eastboro; Tiny; Anna; Susan Marsh; Art Breseco; Erica Clark; Shiva Shambina; 
Paul Montinado; Stephanie Hazar; Larissa Ponticello; Clint Christopherson; Blare Pearson; Jean 
Barish; Mary Howe; Speaker; Anastasia Youvonapolous; Karin Adams; Chris Sumi; Katie; Speaker; 
Jane Wile; Jan; Camila; Mindy Marcelle; Speaker; Abby; Jessica Leighman; Shana; Amelia; Leilani; 
Anne Desconer; Nella; Mary Clark; Mariam Wellington; Emily; Andres; Speaker; Jennifer; Esteres; 
Speaker; Speaker; Holly Lebowitz; Celestina; Gina Stiladonos; Nick; Anonymous; Speaker; Esther 
Hernandez; Fred Mullheim; Benton; Michael Nulty; Speaker; Anthony; Kaisen; Miguel Carvera; 
Aaron Holmes; Laura; Brandy Markman; Maria; Christopher Mica; Speaker; Vanna Kwan; 
Alejandro Silvia; Shawn Smith; Mateo Friedenbach Conden; Zack; Shanti Singh; Speaker; 
Speaker; Sherilyn Adams; Tilda; Speaker; Johnny; Speaker; Lavender; Matthew; Speaker; 
Speaker; Speaker; Mikalen; Speaker; Cecilia; Ian; Dustin Ryan; Calvin Quick; Speaker; Speaker; 
Mulane Ahern; Mark; Speaker; Millie Sloan; Speaker; Speaker; Bruce Showden; Speaker; Gloria 
Berry; Speaker; Speaker; spoke in opposition to the proposed Motion concurring in the 
Proclamation of Local Emergency. There were no other speakers. The President closed public 
comment, declared the public hearing heard and filed, adjourned as the Committee of the Whole, 
and reconvened as the Board of Supervisors.
Motion No. M21-183
APPROVED by the following vote:
Ayes: 8 - Chan, Haney, Mandelman, Mar, Melgar, Ronen, Safai, Stefani
Noes: 2 - Preston, Walton
Excused: 1 - Peskin
Committee of the Whole Adjourn and Report
ROLL CALL FOR INTRODUCTIONS 
See Legislation Introduced below.
Page 1020 Printed at  3:55 pm on 1/21/22City and County of San Francisco
12/23/2021Board of Supervisors Meeting Minutes
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Sonya; spoke on concerns regarding drug addiction and a certain pharmaceutical drug.
Paulina Bayer; expressed concerns regarding collaboration.
Blaire Beekman; shared concerns regarding federal subsidies for housing.
Speaker; wished the Board a happy holiday.
Speaker; thanked the Members and wished a happy holiday.
Joe Consler; thanked the Members and staff for everything they do.
Mary Hell; thanked the Members and the Clerk of the Board.
Barry Taranto; thanked the Clerk of the Board and staff, and expressed concerns regarding public 
bathroom access.
Speaker; expressed support for surveillance reforms.
Speaker; thanked the Members and the Clerk of the Board, and expressed concerns regarding the 
sight of homeless in neighborhoods.
LEGISLATION INTRODUCED AT ROLL CALL
Introduced by a Supervisor or the Mayor
Pursuant to Charter, Section 2.105, an Ordinance or Resolution may be introduced before the Board of 
Supervisors by a Member of the Board, a Committee of the Board, or the Mayor and shall be referred 
to and reported upon by an appropriate Committee of the Board.
MOTIONS
[Concurring in Actions to Meet Local Emergency - Coronavirus Response - 
Forty-First Supplement]
211319
Sponsor: Walton
Motion concurring in actions taken by the Mayor in the Forty-First Supplement to the Proclamation 
of Emergency to meet the ongoing local emergency related to the novel coronavirus COVID-19 
pandemic by requiring City policy bodies to hold meetings by teleconference or other remote 
technology, subject to exceptions for: 1) City policy bodies that receive permission to meet in 
person to act on personnel matters; 2) beginning on January 8, 2022, the Redistricting Task Force; 
and 3) City policies bodies that receive permission to meet in person based on a finding that 
holding an in-person meeting would provide a significant benefit to the public; and requiring 
members of City policy bodies to be fully vaccinated by January 31, 2022. 
12/23/21; REFERRED FOR ADOPTION WITHOUT COMMITTEE REFERENCE AGENDA AT THE NEXT BOARD 
MEETING.
Page 1021 Printed at  3:55 pm on 1/21/22City and County of San Francisco
12/23/2021Board of Supervisors Meeting Minutes
[Committee of the Whole - Proclamation of Local Emergency - Drug Overdoses in 
the Tenderloin - January 4, 2022, at 3:00 p.m]
211322
Sponsor: Peskin
Motion scheduling the Board of Supervisors to sit as a Committee of the Whole on January 4, 
2022, at 3:00 p.m., during the regular Board of Supervisors Meeting, to hold a public hearing on the 
Mayor’s December 17, 2021 Proclamation of a Local Emergency Relating to Drug Overdoses in 
the Tenderloin. 
12/23/21; REFERRED FOR ADOPTION WITHOUT COMMITTEE REFERENCE AGENDA AT THE NEXT BOARD 
MEETING.
[Proclamation of Local Emergency - Drug Overdoses in the Tenderloin]211324
Sponsor: Peskin
Motion concurring/withdrawing concurrence in the December 17, 2021, Proclamation by the Mayor 
Declaring the Existence of a Local Emergency in connection with the sudden increase in drug 
overdoses in the Tenderloin. 
12/23/21; RECEIVED AND ASSIGNED to Board of Supervisors.
REQUESTS FOR HEARING
[Hearing - Implementation of SFMTA Racial Equity Plan]211321
Sponsor: Chan
Hearing on the implementation of San Francisco’s Municipal Transportation Agency’s (SFMTA) 
Racial Equity Action Plan; and requesting the SFMTA and Office of Racial Equity to report. 
12/23/21; RECEIVED AND ASSIGNED to Government Audit and Oversight Committee.
[Hearing - Committee of the Whole - Proclamation of Local Emergency - Drug 
Overdoses in the Tenderloin - January 4, 2022, at 3:00 p.m]
211323
Hearing of the Board of Supervisors convening as a Committee of the Whole on January 4, 2022, 
at 3:00 p.m., to hold a public hearing on the Mayor London N. Breed’s December 17, 2021, 
Proclamation of a Local Emergency Relating to Drug Overdoses in the Tenderloin; to be scheduled 
pending approval of the Motion contained in File No. 211322. (Clerk of the Board)
12/23/21; RECEIVED AND ASSIGNED to Board of Supervisors.
Request Granted
From:  Supervisor Chan
To: Police Commission 
Requesting the Police Commission to provide an update on the implementation of Proposition E, 
the Police Staffing Charter Amendment from November 2020.
Page 1022 Printed at  3:55 pm on 1/21/22City and County of San Francisco
12/23/2021Board of Supervisors Meeting Minutes
ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business, the Board adjourned on December 24, 2021, at the hour 12:29 a.m.
N.B.  The Minutes of this meeting set forth all actions taken by the Board of Supervisors on the 
matters stated, but not necessarily the chronological sequence in which the matters were taken up.
Approved by the Board of Supervisors on January 25, 2022.
Angela Calvillo, Clerk of the Board
Page 1023 Printed at  3:55 pm on 1/21/22City and County of San Francisco